---
layout: post
title:  "Summary of techniques to 21092021"
date:   2021-08-25 19:30:30 +0100
categories: 
---
This blog is about the trip to Clonakilty.  
find this post in your `_posts` directory.  
Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes.  
You can rebuild the site in many different ways,  
but the most common way is to run `jekyll serve`,  
which launches a web server and auto-regenerates your site when a file is updated.  

$$ x = y^2 $$  
$$ x = y^3 $$  

Jekyll requires blog post files to be named according to the following format:

`YEAR-MONTH-DAY-title.MARKUP`

Where `YEAR` is a four-digit number, `MONTH` and `DAY` are both two-digit numbers, and `MARKUP` is the file extension representing the format used in the file. After that, include the necessary front matter. Take a look at the source for this post to get an idea about how it works.

Jekyll also offers powerful support for code snippets:

{% highlight ruby %}
def print_hi(name)
  puts "Hi, #{name}"
end
print_hi('Tom')
#=> prints 'Hi, Tom' to STDOUT.
{% endhighlight %}

Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll Talk][jekyll-talk].

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
---
layout: post
---
Able to Display Equations on Jekyll Site  
Step1: went to jekyllrb to docs to themes and overiding theme defaults  
Step2: used git bash terminal and explorer to upload Minima hidden from view folders to Github.com  
Step3: went to LaTex in Jekyll by Ian Goodfellow as http://www.iangoodfellow.com/blog/jekyll/markdown/tex/2016/11/07/latex-in-markdown.html  
Step4: added MathJax, a JavaScript library that does the actual rendering, by modifying post.html.  
The added code is <script src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML" type="text/javascript"></script>
Outcome  
$$ x = y^2 $$  
$$ x = y^3 $$  
$$ \nabla_\boldsymbol{x} J(\boldsymbol{x}) $$  
The markdown syntax uses $ one more time in each delimiter to the Latex Code giving double $ at each delimiter   
---
layout: post
---
How to display an equation in a web page  
First  https://www.mathjax.org/ Then https://github.com/dpvc (Davide Cervone at end of page)  
Then  https://github.com/dpvc/MathJax  
Then in Readme:  
Using MathJax components from a CDN on the web  
If you are loading MathJax from a CDN into a web page, there is no need to install anything.  
Simply use a script tag that loads MathJax from the CDN. E.g.,  
 script id="MathJax-script" async    
  src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@3/es5/tex-mml-chtml.js"    
script  (NOTE modified to display go to original)      
All that is needed to get an equation to display on a web page is:
the script tag above and double dollar latex code double dollar
Such as "double dollar y=x^{3} double dollar" yields  
$$y=x^{3}$$  
 ---
layout: post
---
The best solution todate for blog. Write text and equations in LYX.
Each equation should be on a new line. Export as plain LaTex. Edit
in Notepad++. Remove any additions to basic LaTex and surround each
equation with double dollar signs. Cut and paste to .md blog file
(Jekyll Minima, GitHub).  
$$\frac{a}{b}\text{Press "ctrl+m" to make a text box. Enter your text}$$  
$$\binom{n}{k}=\frac{n!}{(n-k)!k!}$$  
$$\binom{n}{k}=\binom{n}{n-k}$$  
$$\binom{n}{k}=\binom{n-1}{k}+\binom{n-1}{k-1}$$  
$$(a+b)^{n}=\binom{n}{0}a^{n}+\binom{n}{1}a^{n-1}b+etc$$  
$$2^{n}=\binom{n}{0}+\binom{n}{1}+...$$  
This is text before the last equation:  
$$\binom{n}{0}+...=\binom{n}{1}+...$$  
This is text after the last equation.  
 ---
layout: post
---
How to display equations in pages and blogs    
In layouts, go to both posts and pages html files  
Add MathJax java script from MathJax site. 
It is something like this where tags are removed to display.    
script id="MathJax-script" async  
  src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@3/es5/tex-mml-chtml.js"  
script   
The eques will display with front and back $ and $ arount LaTex.    
$$\sigma = \sqrt{ \frac{1}{N} \sum_{i=1}^N (x_i -\mu)^2}$$    
$$x = {-b \pm \sqrt{b^2-4ac} \over 2a}.$$  
These eques are copied from the MathJax site using right click, Tex Command and Clipboard.  
 ---
layout: post
---
Export this as so that MathJax can read it without modification.

This is a display equation:

$$y=\frac{x}{\alpha}$$

This is an inline equation$y=\cos(\theta)$with no space after the dollar sign, updated.  
  ---
layout: post
---
20210830binom wip
How many groups of k objects made be made from n objects if repetition is allowed.

This is difficult. One of the best approaches is to think grapgically or to think physically.

Suppose we have 3 objects: A,B,C

How many gps of 2 may be formed with repetition?

We may list all possible gps as { AA, AB, AC, BB, BC, CC}.

So there are 6.

In general, the solution in $$\dbinom{n+k-1}{k}$$ or $$\dbinom{n+k-1}{n-1}$$  

 ---
layout: post
---
20210831Combinations with repetitions.

How many groups of n objects taken k at a time may be made if repetitions are allowed?

The solution is $${n+k-1 \choose k}$$ or $${n+k-1 \choose n-1}$$ .

To solve these, we must picture the situation.

Suppose you want to distribute 15 ham sandwiches to eight people, with no restriction on how many each person gets. How many ways are there of choosing how many sandwiches each person gets?

The answer is $${8+15-1 \choose 8-1}$$ or $${8+15-1 \choose 15}$$ .

So the problem reduced to n=8 and k=15.

Why is this?

Stars and Bars

This is the same as finding all the non negative integral solutions to $$a+b+c+d+e+f+g+h=15$$

The stars and bars approach is based on 15 stars and 7 bars so the answer is $${15+7 \choose 7}$$ or equivalently $${15+7 \choose 15}$$

Also follow up on multinomials such as $$\frac{n!}{a_1! \times a_2! \times \cdots \times a_k!}$$ which may also be written as $$\binom{n}{a_1, a_2, \ldots , n_k}$$.  
---
layout: post
---
20210901Fridaysnippets  
Code snippets  
To render a code block with syntax highlighting:
{% highlight ruby %}
def foo
  puts 'foo'
end
{% endhighlight %}

To render a code block with syntax highlighting:
{% highlight ruby %}
def print_hi(name)
  puts "Hi, #{name}"
end
print_hi('Tom')
{% endhighlight %}

Insert HTML to Jekyll post  

Create a folder with the name _includes/ in the DocumentRoot  
  
Then, create an HTML file inside, for example "mycomponent.html"  
 
Omit DOCTYPE html  
  
Call the html in the post to get:

{% include mycomponent.html %}    
 